---
title: Windows 11 and TPM Chips

categories:
    - Microsoft
    - Hardware
---

Just like many others, I am excited for the new Windows 11 release coming this fall. However, I was initially upset like many others that my custom desktop would not be compatible and I would have to build a new computer just to run Windows 11, or hopefully purchase a TPM for my board before they were discontinued. 

However, I have good news! I was watching a video where they were talking about the requirements and within the first minute, the guest speaker said that Intel CPUs from he believed 2014+ had TPM chips built-in. I had never heard of this, so I pulled out the Intel ARK page on my cpu, which is an 8700k, quite capable for my workloads still. I didn't see any mention of the TPM, but there were some security technologies that I didn't know what they were. Well, after some checking around, it turn out that one of the security technologies is Intel speak for "Firmware based TPM". The technology is "Intel Trusted Execution Technology (TXT)". Some documentation for the TXT is found [here on Intel's site](https://www.intel.com/content/dam/www/public/us/en/documents/datasheets/trusted-execution-technology-server-platforms-matrix.pdf)

I rebooted and checked my UEFI for TPM settings, changed them from Dedicated to the other option, rebooted, and.... Huzzah! The tpm.msc console says to reboot to take ownership of the TPM. One more reboot, and I get a working recognized TPM. 

Hopefully this will help you get your system's built-in TPM chip enabled, and ready for Windows 11 (provided you meet the other still floating specs). 